In this video let us see some of the observations
of asymptotic notations
If f(n) is O(g(n)) and
j(n) is O(k(n)) then what will be
the big oh notation for f(n) + j(n)
Let us assume f(n) as n^2 and
g(n) as n^3
Then what will be the upper bound of
n^2 + n^3. It's n cube that is the maximum
value of these two time functions
So if f(n) is O(g(n)) and
j(n) is O(k(n)) than f(n)
plus j(n) is O(max(g(n),k(n)))
Now, what will be the time complexity
If we multiply f(n) and g(n). let us assume
f(n) as n and j(n) as n square
For f(n)*g(n) will be n*n^2
which is O(n^3)
So if we multiply two functions f(n)
j(n) then the time complexity will be the product
of these two time functions that is
O(g(n))*k(n) So, if we add two time
functions say f(n) and J(n)
Then the total time complexity will be
O(max(g(n),k(n)))
And if we multiply two time functions say
f(n)*j(n) that the total time complexity will
be O(g(n)*k(n)). That's it.